---
title: "Accessibility in Language Course"
date: 2020-07-01
draft: false
tags: ["UBC", "german","women", "accessibility"]
---


Age, gender, sexuality, ethnicity, health, culture, language, class, race, location, and ability can all affect one’s access to education. Education is one of the most important parts of life, and I have been blessed to have the opportunity to pursue an education, and even more blessed to have the opportunity to study a STEM field. Alongside my major in Mathematics, I am also majoring in German. I love learning new languages and I have always been good at it, but I was challenged in my previous semester at the University of British Columbia when working as a tutor and scribe for the Accessibility Centre. The German department needed support as a visually impaired student wanted to take a German language. This, tutoring, scribing for, creating materials for, and studying with this student was one of my biggest challenges, but also my proudest and most interesting achievement as I was able to achieve my goal of educating others. This is so important to me, making education more accessible for all who wish to study, as education not only affects the individual, but helps to bring positive change to both their families and communities. I’m proud of myself for being able to have helped with this positive change and I believe my technology background made this experience meaningful and successful as I was able to teach, work with, and stand up for this student with accessibility issues. When one thinks of learning a language from scratch, it is hard to imagine something other than the typical very-heavy-on-visuals-and-on-written-repetition approach to language education. Together, the professor of the course and I, developed a new approach to German language education with a lot more digital materials in accessible formats. We created clearly organized lists, more conversations, more audio materials, and taught the grammar very differently. Facilitating these disability-related accommodations to improve their learning experience had many obstacles such as learning and understanding policies to become more knowledgeable on matters of disability, designing new study tools and games to remove barriers, learning how to optimize the impact of assistive technologies available, and having to rethink all I know about learning a language. Accessibility in education creates better opportunities for all learners, and I believe technology is a solution for so many cases to solve complex problems of learner diversity. 

'This was written as an essay submission for Women in STEM'

